Israel's continued bombardment of gaza's
Health Facilities has resulted in the
Health Care System practically
collapsing gaza's Health Ministry says
it's detected about 1 million cases of
infectious diseases describing the
situation in the strip as extremely
catastrophic 350,000 chronic patients
are at risk because of nonadministration
of medications another 60,000 pregnant
women in Gaza are in danger because of a
lack of access to healthcare and around
10,000 cancer patients at risk of death
meanwhile a un team has delivered
Essential Medical Supplies to hospitals
in Northern Gaza for the first time
since the War Began in October the
situation there is described as Grim
with severe levels of malnutrition
children dying of starvation serious
shortages of fuel food and medical
supplies the UN spokesperson Stefan
dejar gave this
update a team made up of World Health
Organization the office of the
coordination if humanitarian Affairs
UNICEF and the UN population fund all
visited the AL AA and Kamal adwan
hospitals in Northern Gaza yesterday
they did that to deliver Fuel and
Essential Medical supplies that the
visits were the first to those specific
hospitals since early October despite
our ongoing efforts to gain more regular
access to the north of Gaza the team
delivered 9,500 L of fuel to each of the
those hospitals but as you can imagine
this is just a fraction of what is
actually needed uh the director general
of the World Health Organization Dr
tedro spoke of quote Grim findings
during the team's visits including
several levels of malnutrition children
dying of starvation Hospital buildings
destroyed and serious shortages of fuel
and food and medical
supplies uh the Cal adwan hospital is
the only Pediatric Hospital in Northern
Gaza and it is as you can imagine being
over overwhelmed with patience Dr tedro
said the lack of electricity poses a
serious threat to Patient Care and the
lack of food led to the death of 10
children uh as the wh team was informed
uh by uh doctors at the
hospital well let's speak to Dr eang G
who's a Canadian medic who spent a week
treating patients inside Gaza and he's
in close contact with colleagues uh in
the strip and is joining us live from
Ottawa on this newsour thank you so much
for being with us doctor you've been
speaking to your colleagues in Gaza what
are they telling you about the current
situation especially when it comes to
these infectious diseases 1 million
cases that's a staggering
figure that's right I mean thank you for
having me the numbers are staggering but
I think the the human cost of what's
happening on the ground the individual
lives that are being impacted by not
only the Infectious Disease and the
continued violence that people are
experiencing but also I think um it's
really important to highlight the
attacks on healthare that have since
continued I had to check on the status
of my colleagues and friends who are
healthcare workers in the Gaza Strip to
see if they are still
alive only only in the past two days I
had to um check in to see if my
colleagues at the emirati maternity
hospital to see if they were alive
because the gates of that hospital was
struck by a Dron drone drone strike that
killed a paramedic on duty it killed a
nurse a total of 11 people and over 50
people were harmed and injured including
young children
Yeahs on you know people do not feel
safe to provide that kid care but
they're still doing the you know
essential care of looking after their
patients in their Community it's just
horrendous it is many many healthcare
workers have indeed been killed in this
war and and that makes it really
difficult as you
uh for them to treat people who are who
are suffering I just wanted to ask you a
bit more about the infectious diseases
and and these 1 million cases what sort
of diseases are we talking about here
and what's caused
them I mean with the overlapping food
and clean water and housing insecurity
that has pretty much left no one on not
you know every single person has been
entirely touched by those um overlapping
um crises of food food and water and um
shelter insecurity it has led to the
conditions of overcrowding um dis
displacement with people living in tense
um uh unproper um sanitation and clean
water to the point where we're seeing so
much communicable disease in that of
respiratory infections um
gastrointestinal disease including a
major outbreak of hepatitis A and and
these are preventable infections and
diseases that can also be vaccinated
against and and to to heal from such
things we need nutritious food we need
clean water and without such things
we're we're seeing um the worst of the
worst with not only these communicable
diseases these infections um which are
entirely preventable and also treatable
right and and we can't even treat them
because of the lack of medications lack
of antibiotics as you've already said Dr
G well we we also have um children dying
of malut nutition especially in Northern
Gaza and this is happening at an
extremely alarming rate there are the
deaths of course but there are also
long-term consequences to to these
children not getting the proper
nutrition they
need you know I one of the children that
I saw um was the sickest child that I've
ever seen in my entire medical career
they were carried in by his mother and
wasn't able to walk anymore because of
how you know uh malnourished he was and
I could wrap my index finger and my
thumb entirely around both the upper arm
and the lower leg of this child and he
was nine 10 years old and I'm worried
that this is one of the children that
have already died um since I met him two
years two two weeks ago um and the
number of children have died from severe
malnutrition is now in the double digits
um the these are entirely preventable
deaths and these are children we're
talking about that are you know uh
suffer the the the most serious
consequences from the ongoing genocide
and and assault by uh Israel on the
people of Gaza thank you so much for
talking to us Dr Dr eang G joining us
there from Ottawa in Canada thank you
for your
time thank you for having me